What is Git?

- Git is fast and scalable.
- it is most popular VCS.
- Free & Open Source Version Control System.
- Tool that help to tracks changes in code.
- help to collaborate.
- track history.


What is Github?

- Website where we host repositories online.



Git Using :

1) git config --global user.name "My Name"   OR
1) git config --global user.email "myemail123@gmail.com"










Basic commands :

clone :  cloning a repository on our local machine.

git clone <- some link ->


status : display the state of the code.

git status



file status lifecycle :

Untracked → Staged → Committed → Modified → Staged → Committed → Deleted → Staged Deletion → Committed
 
Untracked :
- You create a new file.txt in your working directory. Git doesn’t know about it yet.
👉 git status shows: Untracked files: file.txt

Tracked → Modified :
- You add file.txt to Git with:
git add file.txt → Now it's staged for commit.
git commit -m "Add file.txt" → Now it’s committed.
If you now edit it, it becomes modified.
👉 git status shows: modified: file.txt


Staged :
- After editing, you run git add file.txt again to stage changes for the next commit.
👉 git status shows: Changes to be committed: modified: file.txt

Committed :
- You run git commit -m "Update file.txt" → changes saved in local repo.

Deleted (working dir) :	
- You delete file.txt from your file system → Git notices.
👉 git status shows: deleted: file.txt


Staged Deletion	:
- Run git rm file.txt or git add -u to stage the deletion.
👉 git status shows: Changes to be committed: deleted: file.txt

Restored :
- If you didn’t commit yet and want to bring it back:
git restore file.txt

Ignored (optional) :    
- If you add file.txt to .gitignore, Git will ignore it completely.
Useful for temp or sensitive files.



add : add new or changed files in your working directory  to the Git staging area.

git add <- file name ->


commit : it is the record of changes.

git commit -m "Some message"


push : upload local content to remote repo.

git push origin main


init : used to create a new a git repo.

git init


git remote ass origin <- link ->

git remote -v (to verify remote)

git branch (to check branch)

git branch main ( to rename branch)

git push origin main


git push -u origin main
git push





Git Branches :
- In Git, branches are a part of your everyday development process. Git branches are effectively a pointer to a snapshot of your changes. When you want to add a new feature or fix a bug—no matter how big or how small—you spawn a new branch to encapsulate your changes.


Branches commands :

git branch

git branch -M main (to rename branch)

git checkout <- branch name -> (to navigate)

git checkout -b <- new branch name -> (to create new branch)


git branch -d <- branch name ->  ( to delete branch )


Merge Branch :

git diff <- branch name ->  ( compare commits, branches, file & more )

git merge <- branch name -> ( to merge 2 branch)

OR
Create a PR


Pull Request :
- it lets you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on github.
- it's a way to request that others review your code before you merge it into the main code
- it's a way to collaborate with others on a project
- it's a way to keep track of changes to a project over time
- it's a way to make sure that changes to a project are reviewed and tested before they are
merged into the main code.


git pull origin main 
 - used to fetch and download content from a remote repo and immediately update the local repo to match that content.



Merge conflicts :
-An event that takes place when git is unable to automatically resolve differences in code between two commits.
- It occurs when two or more developers make changes to the same file or files in the same commit
- It can be resolved by manually editing the conflicting files and committing the changes.



Fixing Mistakes :

case 1 : staged changes

git reset <- file name ->

git reset



case 2 : commited message changes (for one commit)

git reset HEAD~1


case 3 : commited changes ( for many commits)

git reset <- commit hash -> 

git reset --hard <- commit hash ->  ( delete all the changes with commit)



note : use git log to show history of commits
git log 




What is Forking ?
- a fork is a new repository that shares code and visibility settings with the original "upstream" repository.
- fork is rough copy.
- it is a way to create a copy of a repository on GitHub, GitLab, or other
- it is used to make changes to a project without affecting the original project.








